Okay, it's finally time to get busy refactoring.
You've seen the application in execution,
and we've taken a lap through the constructs in the
main monolith TypeScript file.
Let's see our functional stack plan.
So in just one slide, let's look at our functional stack design.
This is the order in which we build and deploy each stack.
The order is logical, as you'll see,
in relationship to needed dependencies between stacks.
First and foremost, a relatively easy stack to start with is a data stack.
In our application, this consists of a Dynamo database,
which has no dependencies on any other stacks.
To that end, it's a great place to start refactoring.
Next, we build our storage stack.
In many cases, several other resources and stacks depend on these resources,
so it's logically early in the dependency chain.
That includes the S3 buckets we need for the CodeBuild and CodePipeline objects,
as well as the buckets we need for our web application to run in.
As we're deploying from S3 in this rendition of the application,
an S3 bucket deployment is included in the storage stack.
After that, we build our content delivery network stack,
which includes our CloudFront objects.
CloudFront generally takes a little longer,
as I showed earlier to deploy, so it's nice to have it early in the process.
In addition, to teach a bit of stack dependency lessons,
we use the CDN and storage stacks to illustrate that point in an
elementary way before we get into heavier dependencies.
Then we build our serverless stack, which houses our Lambda functions.
Keep in mind, we aren't using a serverless framework here in the demo app.
I'm using the term serverless to represent no VPC or EC2 resources.
After our Lambda stack,
we build our identity management stack where we set up
our cognito user and identity pool.
Then, as we now have Lambdas set up,
we can build our API stack consisting of our primary
API gateway for our application.
Once all those are in place,
we can press forward with the complexities of the code deployment objects.
These include CodeBuild and CodePipeline projects.
In general, these depend on just about everything else we have so far.
Lastly, it would be prudent to set up a security stack.
which houses all our IAM roles and policies.
In most cases, this is a great practice.
For our demo application, I'm not going to strip out all the IAM objects,
as it tends to cloud the learning process.
You end up passing around a lot of roles and policies,
which is usually fine in the real world; however,
I want to ensure that the demo application is as easy to understand as possible.
To that end,
policies and roles are created in line with their constituent resources.
In the first refactoring demo,
we're going to segregate our database and storage objects into
our new data and storage independent stacks.
So to get started refactoring, I've made a little text‑based checklist here,
and I'll include this in the course materials file as well,
if you want to follow along.
It's fairly simple what I'm actually going through.
Really quickly, as a general rule, I generally run an ncu ‑u,
and do an npm update to make sure my packages are always up to date.
Now, if you go globally install npm check updates,
you can run this, and then your CDK packages will at least always be up to date.
Amazon changes them almost every day, every week,
several times a week,
so you'll wake up the next morning and everything will be a few versions ahead.
So the first thing that we're going to do is I'm going to go into the cdk.json,
and I'm going to rename the main application file where we instantiate our app.
Before I change this, it had multi full stack in it, right?
So I'm going to go ahead and change this to full stack.
After that, obviously, I'm going to go into the bin folder.
and I'm going to rename that TypeScript file itself.
From there, what I'm going to do is create a stacks directory,
which you can see I actually already have underneath,
which I'll create two sub folders, a database sub folder,
and an S3 sub folder.
And then inside of those,
I've created the database TypeScript file and the S3 TypeScript file.
And then once we get our code moved over,
we'll have to go in and change our full stack file to
instantiate everything properly.
So, first and foremost, again, you can see there's the stacks directory.
Inside the stacks directory, I have the database and S3 folders.
So let's go look really quickly at the database TypeScript file.
And again, as I said, plain vanilla here, right?
I've basically just imported CDK IAM.
I know I'm going to have some database code in here,
so I've imported the DynamoDB package as well.
So nothing really magical going on here.
So let's go ahead and go back over to the full stack,
and let's copy and paste that code in.
So I'll just grab the whole region, go back to my database file,
and I'm going to copy everything in, right?
Now, obviously, we know something's going to be wrong.
I mean, we would hope something would be wrong.
So let's go back up and take a look.
For the most part, everything is okay.
It's complaining a little bit, obviously,
about the project name and table name, which were member variables,
if you remember from the original class file right there,
right?
So fairly simple here on getting this resolved.
What we're going to do is we're going to start using a properties pattern,
in which case we're going to start creating
interfaces inside of each class file.
So let me go ahead and grab this to copy and paste.
And there we go, we've got a DatabaseStackProps interface.
So let me go ahead and inject that in the class now, instead of stack props.
And now, instead of using this,
I just have to change that to props in both situations.
And there we go.
Our class is actually working fine, but at that point, we're good.
The class is perfectly happy at this point.
So let's go over and do the same thing on the S3 side.
If I get that S3 TypeScript file open.
I've done the same thing; I've imported S3 IAM core.
I know there's an S3 deployment as well in the code,
so I've added the S3 package as well. I went ahead
and moved over the file as well, that was getRandomInt,
because all that was used for was literally just making
sure that our S3 buckets had unique names.
So let's go over and grab that code, copy that, and paste it.
Fairly similar situation here.
It's really only complaining about the properties that we were using,
that again, were member variables in our primary class.
So if I go over now and just grab another simple interface,
and paste that in, and then grab those S3 stack properties,
and inject those in the class.
All we need to do at this point is just change that back to props,
we'll copy and paste that.
Pretty good, all the way down so far.
And we're good, right?
So both of those two classes are now created,
our stacks are distributed, and they're living in different class files.
So let me make sure both of those are saved, Ctrl+S on both of those.
And now what was next, right?
From here, we need to go back in,
and we need to update our full‑stack.ts file where
we instantiate our application.
So if I go back into that file, fairly simple right out of the gate,
although we are no longer going to instantiate a masterful stack single stack.
So I'm going to go ahead and delete the reference to it
completely and delete the instantiation as well.
And now what we need to do is we need to grab those two class files.
Here we go.
So now I have the database stack pulled in,
the S3 stack pulled in,
and now we can actually instantiate those objects independently.
So again, with just a little simple copying and pasting,
as supposed to typing in the line of code,
paste those in.
Wait a minute, hold on, what we do with these props?
Alright, well, same situation right here.
We're going to start using a properties pattern that is a very common
and popular pattern in CDK applications by which all your properties
are controlled and passed in appropriately,
interfaces dictate exactly what happens,
and what is required inside of each class,
right?
So now I have a props subject, and we know that needs to be passed in, right?
Oh, I can see what's wrong already in my properties.
I had the interface incorrect, exactly the reason why we use an interface.
There we go,
it dictates exactly what makes its way into the class and what the class needs.
We should be all good at this point to run a TSC.
Everything is all clean and happy.
So at this point now, if I do a cdk ls, I'm going to have two stacks.
Obviously, they're not connected together; they're just independent stacks,
but let's go ahead and use our InfViz tool.
Let's deploy these.
Now if I just cdk deploy, it's going to tell me which stack you want to deploy,
which is exactly what it did.
But if I do a cdk deploy, and I give it a star or a wildcard in this case,
it's actually going to go ahead and deploy every stack in the list.
Now, keep in mind, if you do have stacks that are dependent on each other,
they'll actually auto‑deploy.
So if these two were depending on each other, deploying one would deploy both.
So let's deploy that, and let's go look at a live view of the infrastructure.
Be right back.
So now that both stacks deployed successfully,
let's go take a look at the new resources inside of the InfViz console.
So here we are, back in InfViz.
I want to go hit Configuration, General,
and I'm going to re‑import the data, and then go back over to configuration
and hide the infrastructure that we don't want to see.
Let's clear everything and just show Dynamo and S3.
There we go.
We have all the buckets that we created.
Here's our Dynamo database, and we're all happy.
So the next thing we're going to do is we're going to add the CloudFront stack,
which has some dependencies.
Obviously, the website bucket is the source.
So the next clips are going to talk a little bit more about inter‑stack communication.